
# flaiR 0.0.3 (development version)

__Some major changes__:

* Add the show.text_id and gc.active parameters respectively to `get_entities()`, `get_pos()`, and `get_sentiment()` functions: 

 + `show.text_id` : When set to __TRUE__, this option includes the actual text (referred to as 'text_id') from which the entity was extracted in the resulting data table. Including the 'text_id' can be beneficial for verification and traceability. However, be aware that this might increase the size of the output. By default, this option is set to FALSE. Please note that originally, the 'text_id' was generated by default, which could lead to increased memory usage in R.
 
 + `gc.active` : If __TRUE__, runs the garbage collector after processing all texts. This can help in freeing up memory by releasing unused memory space, especially when processing a large number of texts. Default is FALSE.  Additionally, when processing large texts, it can cause R's memory to expand, so it's suggested to set `gc.active` to TRUE. This doesn't necessarily improve computational efficiency but can prevent RStudio from failing.
 
* Batch Processing:
We introduced a new batch_size parameter with a default value of 5 in the batch process versions of `get_entities()`, `get_pos()`, and `get_sentiment()`. This created a new internal function, process_batch, to handle each batch of texts and their associated doc_ids. We adjusted the main function to split texts and doc_ids into batches, process each batch using the process_batch function, and then combine the results.


# flaiR 0.0.1 (development version)

* The features in flaiR currently include part-of-speech tagging, sentiment tagging, and named entity recognition tagging.  flaiR requires Python version 3.7  or higher to operate concurrently.

* create_flair_env(): A function to install the Flair Python library using the `reticulate` R package, which is automatically generated.


